Optimization and Clarity Enhancement for Intro to Plugins Documentation (#23266)
backstage/backstage: docs/plugins/index.md

## Suggesting a Plugin

If you're developing an open-source plugin, we encourage you to initiate a [new issue](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/issues/new?labels=plugin&template=plugin_template.md&title=%5BPlugin%5D+THE+PLUGIN+NAME) on our GitHub repository. This gesture not only informs the community about upcoming plugins but also invites collaboration and feedback.

This approach is equally beneficial if you conceive an idea for a potentially impactful plugin but prefer if another contributor undertakes its development.

## Integration with the Software Catalog

Should your plugin complement the Software Catalog rather than exist as a standalone entity (for instance, as an additional tab or a card within an "Overview" tab), you'll find comprehensive guidance on achieving this integration [here](integrating-plugin-into-software-catalog.md).

## Coming Soon: Table of Contents for "Backstage Integration Essentials: A Complete Guide to Plugin Development"

- **Guide Overview**
  - Purpose and Scope
  - Target Audience Insights
  - Navigation Tips
- **Foundation of Plugin Development**

>   - Preparing Your Development Environment

Author: I was thinking of a dual approach: linking to the getting started documentation for the primary environment setup and expanding the content in the `Foundation of Plugin Development` section to include specific setup instructions and tips that are needed to build plugins (config dev tools, plugins, and libs that are more used in plugin dev work.

>   - Architectural Overview of Backstage

Author: [Added](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/pull/23266#discussion_r1510004421)

  - Building Your First Plugin: A Detailed Walkthrough
- **Plugin Architecture Deep Dive**
  - Exploring Frontend Components
  - Backend Services Uncovered
  - Facilitating Frontend-Backend Communication
- **Advanced Integration Techniques**
  - Proxy Integration for External APIs
  - Implementing Authentication and Authorization
  - External Systems and Database Integration
- **Deployment and Operational Excellence**
  - Strategies for Effective Deployment
  - Monitoring, Logging, and Performance Tuning
- **Adhering to Best Practices**
  - Code Organization and Modularity
  - Security Protocols
  - Engaging with the Backstage Community
- **Troubleshooting and Support**
  - Addressing Common Challenges
  - Debugging Strategies
  - Leveraging Community Support
- **Real-world Implementations and Lessons**
  - Case Studies

>   - Community-Sourced Best Practices

Author: What are your thoughts about this? https://github.com/backstage/backstage/pull/23266#discussion_r1510012426

>   - Community-Sourced Best Practices

Author: I do not think my linking is working correctly with the given commit

- **Resource Compendium**

>   - Glossary of Key Terms

Author: Done

  - Recommended Reading and Tools

> - **Certification and Learning Pathways**

Reviewer: 🙌

---
id: index
title: Introduction to Plugins
description: Learn about integrating various infrastructure and software development tools into Backstage through plugins.
---

Backstage orchestrates a cohesive single-page application by seamlessly integrating various plugins.

Our vision for the plugin ecosystem champions flexibility, empowering you to incorporate a broad spectrum of infrastructure and software development tools into Backstage as plugins. Adherence to stringent [design guidelines](../dls/design.md) guarantees a consistent and intuitive user experience across the entire plugin landscape.

> ![Plugin Screenshot](../assets/plugins/my-plugin_screenshot.png)

Reviewer 2: We should really take the time to update this image as it doesn't match the current state

## Creating a Plugin

> Embark on your plugin development journey by following the detailed steps provided [here](create-a-plugin.md).

Reviewer 2: To help avoid using "here" as the link I like to say:

```suggestion
Embark on your plugin development journey by following the detailed steps provided in the [Create a Plugin](create-a-plugin.md) documentation.
```

## Suggesting a Plugin

If you're developing an open-source plugin, we encourage you to create a
[new issue in the community plugins repo](https://github.com/backstage/community-plugins/issues/new/choose).
This informs the community about upcoming plugins and invites collaboration and feedback.

This approach is equally beneficial if you conceive an idea for a potentially impactful plugin but prefer if another contributor undertakes its development.

## Integration with the Software Catalog

> Should your plugin complement the Software Catalog rather than exist as a standalone entity (for instance, as an additional tab or a card within an "Overview" tab), you'll find comprehensive guidance on achieving this integration [here](integrating-plugin-into-software-catalog.md).

Reviewer 2: Could we use a different word then "entity" here, it's a bit overloaded. I think you mean like the way TechRadar or Cost Insights are only access via the sidebar when you say entity here but for those new to Backstage that might not be obvious. We also uses entity to mean items in the Catalog so it's a bit confusing.

Reviewer 2: Also, let's try and adjust using "here" for the link

> ## Guides for Plugin Development

Reviewer 3: I think we want to highlight that this is work in progress and many of these do not exist yet.

Gotta say I'm not entirely sold on the beginner/intermediate/advanced split, it might be that we want to guide everyone through all of theses, but happy to have that discussions a bit later.

Author: @Rugvip 

Thank you for the feedback. I fully understand the importance of highlighting that this is a work in progress, with many components still under dev. While the beginner/intermediate/advanced split was initially meant to offer a structured learning path similar to the k8s project, I’m open to other ideas. However, I believe it would be best to remove docs/integrations/plugins-101-building-your-first-plugin/why-build-plugins.md as we work towards finalizing the structure of docs/plugins/index.md.

@awanlin @aramissennyeydd, are you okay with that as well?

Author: @awanlin @aramissennyeydd just wanted to resurface this for this week.
How do you want me to proceed? 
I want to make sure the outline in the index has a solid foundation so I can start the writing process. 
I’m open to suggestions on how we would like this structured.

## Guides for Plugin Development

### For Beginners: Building Your First Plugin

This section is designed for those new to plugin development. It covers the basics and provides a foundation for more advanced topics.

> - **Plugins 101: Building Your First Plugin**

Reviewer 2: Do we really need these headings for the lists? There's already a main heading that seems pretty clear. The 101, 201, and 301 terminology may not be universal.

Reviewer: @awanlin (haven't kept up on reviews here) I initially proposed the 101, 201, 301 format as a cutesy system based on numberings at my college - it has a progression built in 101 < 201 < 301 and has more expansions possible, ie 102 for things that aren't quite 201, 202 for things that aren't quite 301, etc. Open to changes here, but I'd like to keep this ✨ fun ✨

Reviewer 2: Not against fun but does it translate to others? I'm not sure that those outside of North America it's clear what those mean.

Reviewer: Hmm 🤔 , it's an interesting question. I'm not sure I can easily google search to find what other systems are used 😞. A quick look seems like it's used in Japan and some parts of Europe, but probably only those that have North American students (as they have English-language sites).

Author: Going to change this out.

  - Why build plugins? Introduction to the value and impact of plugins within Backstage.
  - Detailed guidance on starting and iterating on a plugin development project.
  - Engaging with the community and stakeholders to propel your project.

> ### For Intermediate Users: Scaling Your Plugin

Reviewer 2: Optional: Is "scaling" the right word here? What comes to my mind first is more technical - horizontal and vertical - that might also be what others think. I'm not sure what the better wording would be right now though 🤔

Reviewer 2: I do like "Bringing Your Plugin to Production"

Author: How about:

- **Preparing Your Plugin for Production**
  - Strategies for growing the usage and adoption of your plugin.
  - Best practices for monitoring and logging.
  - Understand plugin ownership and maintain an inner source mentality.

This section helps developers prepare their plugins for broader adoption, emphasizing best practices in monitoring, logging, and performance.

- **Plugins 201: Bringing Your Plugin to Production**
  - Strategies for scaling your plugin for greater adoption.
  - Best practices for monitoring and logging.
  - Understand plugin ownership and maintain an inner source mentality.

### For Advanced Users: Deep Dive into Plugin Development

This is for those ready to explore complex challenges and enhance their plugins with advanced features.

- **Plugins 301: Advanced Topics in Plugin Development**

>   - Enabling resource-level authorization and interfacing with external services, SCMs, or databases.

Reviewer 2: I worry about this coming so late, general experience is that most initial plugins are based around: "I want to integrate with System X usually via its API".

Author: @awanlin I could add to the `101` section `Integrating with external systems: Interfacing with APIs and other services.` and reword the `301` section to `Enabling resource-level authorization and interfacing with SCMs or databases.`

  - In-depth exploration of fostering an inner source mentality and understanding adoption dynamics.
  - Decision-making frameworks: choosing between developing a new plugin or utilizing an existing open-source solution.

> ## Additional Resources and Further Reading

Reviewer 2: Is the intention to add links here? Right now this doesn't look to be terribly helpful 🤔

Author: Yes, the “## Additional Resources and Further Reading” section is a placeholder. I am currently working on this section to make sure it is up to date..
